The Big Bang of The Universe Operating System, UOS.



This is the manifesto for UOS, The Universe Operating System.  Comic Sans MS will be chosen when possible.

The actual moment, or event, of its Bang has not occured.  Defered while some things are settled.

UOS will be represented by the web page placed at http://UniverseOpSys that will do nothing at first but present 
this manifesto all prettied up.   As soon as possble that will be underlain by a persistent Node REPL in a window 
with a voice interface. Persistance means that your data while using it remains in your local memory.  (Login 
avoided if possible or attached to browser maybe.)  From one opening of the page to the next, what the user will 
see in his Node workspace is retained. No login or any of that if possible.  Sounds easy, right?  Somebody must 
know how to do that in a heartbeat.  If you do you will be imortalized as the first space-head, Space-Head.  
Possesion of that name carries privilege by decree as does mine GodsWink. (What that means, if anything, to be 
further considered.)


After that anything can be constructed which is an appropriate web interface that can be named from a logon 
Node REPL command by entering ".load Bang". It is congruent with the physical Universe as we space-heads 
see it.  All URLs are accessable by name that can be sent to a browser. Decreed default behavior. Other things 
are available by name. A popular one will be Universe which is the best mapping possible to the physical universe 
rooted in some fixed and as yet undefined CMB space. This one lets you turn in or off that knob on your TV.  
You can then become congruent with whatever you name next. It could be your living room. A spoken or 
entered name from the main window will fully replace the user context with that communicated. Fail safe reset. 
The default active event addressable at logon, the one you jump into, is now and forever named Universe by decree. 
From there one can assume other congruencies by naming them.  I have some ideas about what that should and will 
contain but they are formative. There will be a clock function linked to GMT.  One can immediately change frames 
of reference by naming one unless that is blocked.  User and supervisor mode possible from this and can 
evolve. But then what. In the works. Becomes existent with the to-be-specified release of the Bang JavaScript 
file at github.

Space-head is apropo a user.  The model used in the UWW is that of points, called events, in a Hamiltonian 
space time p, Q and t in integral Planck units.  The view chosen might be called QBist.  The space of events 
is giganormous so a random one can be considered to live in perfect anonymity until a user copies off any 
data it has associated into a new one that isn't anonymous.

A library of Canonical Hamiltonian phase space transformations will be provided in the REPL for the physics 
and graphics of things.  When space is fixed via a measurement in a best inertial CMB that links it to a point 
in GOS. It will provide a natural resolution of physical space no greater and no less than nature itself.  
Registration with "Real Reality" will be managed inherently with a dynamic and partitioned transformation.  
Room for lots of work here.

It is a place where quants could be nicely at home with the innate coordinate system and transformations. 
Those are already part of quant thinking and UWW makes it easy for them to work directly with that familiar 
framework.  Amazing bots can be constructed complete with active Beyesian reasoning.  Simulation anyone?

As a host for virtual reality it has characteristics beyond any specification now or in the future.  A stable 
channel with mapped coordinates can be set up by reference between two people's rooms with a pair of position 
samples.  You could do one measurement and I could do one and those two points in our rooms become congruent 
to each other with chosen translation and/or rotation.  We can share that channel to send or receive a 3D image  
I can physically see in real time.  Planar works just as well.  That can be movable for full motion tracking.  
A usable beam can be created with my position as the target when I am tracked.  No one can tap into it, however, 
without knowing what it's event is.

No one can tap into any kind of a channel, however, without knowing what it's event pair is.  No one can modify 
a channel that doesn't know the events of both ends.  Endpoint to endpoint private security is guaranteed (More 
to be said on that.)  Channels can be un-traceably disconnected from the UWW at will.  Anybody who does know 
both end events, can spoof but it is easy to keep that secure. It's what and all that identifies such a channel.

It can and will contain hardware and software supported events which can do Bayesian transformation simulation 
in parallel.  I.e., it will think.

The enormity of the space of "IP's" inherent in the range of the coordinates and the number of them provides 
unique security guarantees.  Not promises, guarantees.

The GitHub page I've set up for this is www.github.com/UniverseOpSys/Bang the README.md file is thoughts as I 
design and architect the thing.  A living blog.  The Bang.js creation program execution will first log into it 
(may just be named Bang) or will reset it. This is the Manifesto.txt file.

